Y'all must have all been kinfolks in those days.
Right. You must all have been seen to have been...
White people? No, they was white people. Oh, white
people? Oh, poor white persons. I know, I go out
this place and I heard he was born. Oh, I didn't know
he was white, ma'am. Yes, you were. That's because
you didn't like him. Because our boys was well
learned, and they'd have to speak in his own... at
the schoolhouse, you know, for... White folks
would wander around for office or something.
Quit,
Howie. Did you raise many, uh, did the white folks,
the poor white trash and the colored folks have
many fights back in the, after the good break up?
How many run in? No, we never had nothing to run
into. The dragons. Well, I mean, did they have
many, you know, quarrels and fights, isn't there?
No. No, they didn't have these white, these buyers
that had killed our white, our boys, my husband and
his brother. It was poor white people. They didn't
like it. And let me see how that did come up. I just
forgot that I knew all about that. I know my husband
was on his way from there. Well, did the white folks
meddle? Did the poor white track meddle much with
the colored barrels in those days? Not all that at
all. I don't know where they did it. Well, I didn't
mean at your home. I mean around those. Did you hear
anything like that going on in those days? No. Yes.
We should let them buy this.
Meddle this too. Well, the girls, we didn't run.
They had different classes, you know. Color
girls, white boys, white boys, white boys at
night. We didn't associate. Well, did much of that
go on in those days? Very little of it. It's going on
more now than it did in my raising of days. Is that
right? Yes, sir. Well, I think this might have gone
on. Very, very, very. We didn't go, you know. We
didn't associate with that kind, no. It's going on
more now than it did in my reign. My sister did.
Yeah, you know that little John Junior across the
street from you? He's got almost blonde hair. Yes.
His hair's white. Mm-hmm, his mama. Yes, his mama,
Miss Fanny, is his grandma. Mm-hmm. Miss Fanny's
son, Pete Morris, is his father, her oldest son.
Well, her name was Bell, though. I don't think her
name was his. Her name was Fanny Bell. She married a
Bell, but Bell wasn't Lee's children's father.
Oh, I see. Morris was Lee's children's father.
Well, now, who was your second husband, ain't I?
Who was my second husband? Let me see, who was my
second husband? You married again after, uh, uh,
your, uh, what was his name? Old man. Old man, uh,
oh, I married Goldson Sawd was my second husband.
Goldson Sawd? Yes. And, uh... How long did you live
with him? Oh, about a year or two years. He had a
good, he had an engine blood in him. He did? Mm-hmm.
And my next servant was old man. Well, now what
happened to Bolton Sauls? He died or did you
divorce him? He didn't sign the divorce, but I got
my divorce from him. That's the thing. You did?
Yeah. He lived a long time after me and him married.
Well, after you separated from him, who did you
marry? Old man Purcell. What's his name? Old man
Purcell. How old was he? Oh, he was 80, brother. He
was older than I was. His wife. That was his second
wife that he married. Well, didn't y'all have
trouble? Didn't he have a little trouble? Who? You
and old man Purcell. Didn't he kind of cut up and
carry on? Yes. He cut up and carry on. I quit him.
Come on back home. Did Daddy get you out of the boat?
Mm-hmm. I heard him. What was the matter with him?
Well, the old man Puster was all right. He was
right. But his son, that's why we had trouble with
Arthur. He comes to command the place, you know,
tries to put me on the place. He couldn't do it. I
stayed there as long as I wanted, and I got ready to
come on home. And then who did you marry? Let me see,
who was the last man I married? Old Man Coker, over
here. Old Man Coker. Well, didn't he try to whip you
one time? Yes, he could whip me. Speak a little
louder in here. No, he couldn't whip me. He tried,
but he couldn't. And what did you do to him? Put him
out of the door. He did? Well, he was about 100 years
old, wasn't he, at some time? I don't know how old he
was. He was in the Army. In the Civil War. He fought
in the Army. Yes, he fought in the Civil War. And you
married him in 1930s, didn't you? Yeah. See, that
would make him close to 100 anyhow. Yes, but you
see, you know, there's other parties between him,
me and him, that's a cause of our trouble. Is that
right? Yeah. Is this Ethel over here? Was he
chasing girls over here? Yes. He was? Yes. He
didn't just hobble around? He didn't just hobble
around. He was chasing for his money, you know. Oh,
I see. See, he got his money from the army. One of the
girls... Must have made a fool out of him. Yes, he
did. He got his money, all his money. He got $60 or
$70 a month, every month.
Well, do you still go to church here, Harry? Yes, I
go to church all the time, Harry. I went to the
Methodist church up there. Oh, yeah. At St.
Annie's. At St. Annie's. Yes, I joined that church
after I come here. We built that church. Who's your
preacher up there? I have never met him. We've got a
new preacher here now. I could do his name. Me and
Judith belong to that church up there. Is he a good
preacher? I don't think I have to do that. What sort
of preacher is he? Some day I was preparing to go to
the church. Some folks from St. Margaret's come,
and I didn't go. Well, what do you think about
Reverend Reese as a preacher? Well, Reverend
Reese, he's... Wouldn't have ever reached Miss
Fanny's picture. No, but friendly with that. He's
just a good friend of mine. Yes, he's a good friend
of mine. I like him fine. He's been to my house. He
has? Yeah. He thanks a lot of you, too. Yes, he's
been to my house. I like him fine. He's been to my
house several times. Hey, Larry, how has times
changed since you came to Austin? Oh, I don't know.
Times changed. We've had churches, different
things. Did you ever think you'd live to see the
automobile? No. I never lived to see the
automobile. I heard talk of them. I heard my
husband talk of them. He went north with a herd of
bees with some white birds, and he seen them like
that. Is that right? He was a cowboy. Which husband
was that? That's Jim Smith, my first husband, all
these children's fathers. Oh, he saw the mobiles
then when he went up with the very cowboys. Yes,
yes, and he'd come by and say, I saw these airplanes
and things. Is that right? He came up and told you
that? Well, yes, but we didn't know what it was.
Well, Lord, he was killed for a turn in the century
before 1900, wasn't he? No, he was killed in 1901.
1901. We had a thing up north with a herd of bees, you
know, for cattle. Who did he work for? Well, he
worked for different people. We worked for
ourselves then. We bought a home of our own.
Yes, right. You plowed in the field, hey? Sure, I
did. Plowed and chucked cotton. I could drop corn
in this place. I walked that way. Grandmother,
too. Yes, ma'am. What was the name of your oxen, do
you remember? Oh, I've got one of them named Jerry
and the other named Broad. And named what? Broad.
Jerry and Broad. Yes, you put them hootin' and the
oxen go round and plow. Yes, I don't know if my
children are the seeding oxen. Hmm.
You
have the word of God, sir. All right, that's that.
We have the word of God. We have the word of God. We
have the word of God. We have the word of God.
Father, we thank you for the darkness of the night,
for the moment of beautiful time today in the name
of Jesus. Now, step us up into this moment and keep
us out of trouble and thunder.
Thank
you. I
was born and born in North, in the back of North
Carolina, in the night city. Well back in the
street, young woman in the middle of the street. Go
right ahead, go right ahead. How old are you, Miss
Williams? Me? I'm in my 80s. In my 18 years. You were
born where? Born in North Carolina, there, right
here. Well,
back in North Carolina. How did they treat you?
Now, when did you first find the Word of God? Well,
I was out of a gospel land and a Bible country. And I
was six months, no education. I was six months
seeking my soul's salvation. And out of a gospel
land and a Bible country, and no church time, going
to the farm field. Instead, going to the church,
home to the church. But
when our own master did love this kind of people, we
didn't judge them. That is when I was told. But
after my own master knew this guy, and he never
thought he could win. In fact, he couldn't win the
big championship. Why,
of course, there's children. And then, at the time
that I didn't have children, I didn't have the Word
of God. And you know, what Sunday, Saturday, I'd be
down there in the sun, half past the first of the
day, and sitting in my cellar, and the children
would be sitting on me, and we'd all be praying,
sitting on me. I'd pray it in the morning. And
four days in the morning, going to Irish, and so
forget I went, and so knowing the Irish. I
know nothing about heaven, God, or Christ. I have
to get out of here before it's too long. And he
looked up to me, and he said to me, and he said to me,
and he said to me, Oh,
my God. Oh, my God. as
it means for God and for no man. And children, you
can get up to four steps only, but God says, keep him
and be born of him, and keep his commandments, born
now of him. Why do we propose this to our teachers,
to our students, to bring them from head to head? .
. . . . shooting
fire on one of his women's children in 1953. That's
very true. Don't worry about it. Don't worry.
Don't worry about it.
I
said, thank God for the hand of my angel. He said,
they're killing me now. I said, they're going to
hit me in the head. I said, hey, look in here. It's
salvation over me. Hey, look right there over me.
And I've been born to God. I said, they're killing
me. I said, glory to God, children. He said, no
one's stopping me. I said, I kept my first faith. So
I didn't let that go in my head anymore. There's an
old ship. There's an old ship. And
how the children, with my own mother left back
behind, used to give her so nice to the old, they
would give her just like golden sisters, the white
children. They were all raised up together. One
went back home too late in the fall. The other went
back home. And they'd be holding her on their feet,
the white children, like that, for half a year. And
we'd put her on ours. And we'd put her, we'd put her
on Gary's. And
then the youngest woman had the knife before she
could... It's
too high. I
used to say, I want a poor old man to hire me. I used to
see a rich man. I used to see a lot of people who were
just saying, my own book, my own person. A poor old
man had five foundations. Is there that kind of
thing in this country? We need a hero. He killed
everything. Cows, wood cows, daisies. Walk
out of it, move the planet, find the same heart and
wish for it. And that's how it is. I've been raised.
Just don't play with me. Don't play with me. The
woman came away from heaven, and the woman is here.
Look, I was raised. I was raised in all of this. I
know I'm over it all in my 80 years, and I know I look
like it. But I was raised. Hold me in your hands. And
put straws, put straws down in there. And don't
stick us in the middle of the middle. Why
do you do that? Why do you do that? and
holding our work. And we just took that, you know,
and we came in now, came in now, we were staying, we
were in the building, in the office building, and
then we took this book to America, and it was so many
problems we were in America. This
is life. This is life, mere life. You will pray to
God. You will pray to God all the time. You will pray
to God all the time. You will pray to God all the
time. You will pray to God all the time. You
must go and go and you will see me now. You will die.
You will die. You will die. You will die. You will
die. You will die. You will die. You will die. You
will die. You will die. God
is the King of all my joy. They
love the wild ones.
A
hundred and one.
I
see the people. I see the people. I see the people. I
see the people. Who's
wrong? It was... I
love the kind of thing that, you know, they were
going away. They're done crazy shit over there,
and they were going away. And I know it was, what,
two or three people that were going away. I don't
know. I don't know. And
they were going away, they were going on the stage
road leading to the north. And they were needing
that. And when they got in the stage road, about two
miles, the man on the side with the bag hanging
toward him, you know, down his waist. One
on the back, one on the back, two on the back, two on
the back, two on the back, two on the back, two on the
back, If
he was in this manor, we might have got a good home
over here. If he was in this manor, we might have got
a good home over here. He
said, he said, I'm going to put it on my drum and I'm
going to play. I'm going to do it. I'm going to put it
on my drum and I'm going to play. And I'm going to put
it on my drum and I'm going to play. And I'm going to
play. I
want to thank you. I want to thank you. Thank
you. Hi.
William
Nelson Thomas. Brown, Robert Stafford Jones, and
Dunsley County. Virginia. Virginia. Well, in
1844. How old are you now? Well, how old are I now?
Well, that's 47, really quick. I
ain't gonna move, sir.
I
was born in Daniels, Florida, Virginia. And I was
born on the second floor off of this window. Second
floor, I'm four. Fifth floor. Fifth. Fifth.
Fifth. Fifth. Fifth. Fifth.
Oh,
yeah. No, they were short.
My
name is Charles Taylor. Where are you from? I'm
going here for dinner. Period period. The second
year, or the third year after the third year, the
year after the third year. In general, how long,
how long I've been here, fourth year of the month,
I'm not going to tell you. Thank you for that.
Man
Vita. Three, two, one. You
didn't motivate people? No, of course not.
They wouldn't give a shit.
.
. . . . Mother,
what were you up to? I didn't do anything but take
the basket and move it. This is the day. It's a half a
mile apart. Thank
you. .
. . . . . My
mother raised 300 or 400 people in Latin America.
That's what your father did. My father believed in
Jesus. He was like that. But my mother didn't do no
that. She didn't know what she could do. We
do anything, we cook. We drink no water, no milk. We
don't even wash our hands. That's her daughter,
that's her daughter-in-law. She has a daughter
named Mia, she has a son. We don't do anything. We
don't do anything. We don't do anything. We don't
do anything. We don't do anything. We don't do
anything. We don't do anything. We don't do
anything.
.
. . . . . . . . . Thank
you.